What is a Module?
A module is a Python file containing reusable code.
Definition: A module is a .py file that contains functions, variables, or other Python code.    Pasted markdown(2)

Why Modules?
Modules split a large program into smaller, organized files.
Definition: Modules make code easier to reuse, understand, maintain, and manage.

import
Used to bring a module into your program.
Definition: import allows you to use code from another module.

from ... import
Imports specific items from a module.
Definition: It lets you use selected functions or variables without the module name.

Import Multiple Items
You can import several functions or items at once.
Definition: Multiple items can be imported using commas.

Import Everything *
Imports all available items from a module.
Definition: from module import * imports everything, but is generally avoided because it can cause confusion and name conflicts.

Aliases
Gives a module a shorter or different name.
Definition: as creates an alternative name for an imported module.

Built-in Modules
Python provides many ready-to-use modules.
Definition: Built-in modules come with Python and don't need separate installation.

math
Provides mathematical functions and constants.
Definition: math is used for operations such as square root, powers, ceiling, floor, and π.    Pasted markdown(2)

random
Used to generate random values.
Definition: random provides functions for random numbers, choices, and shuffling.

datetime
Used to work with dates and times.
Definition: datetime provides tools for handling dates and time information.

os
Used to interact with the operating system.
Definition: os provides functions for working with folders, files, and system information.

sys
Provides information and functions related to Python itself.
Definition: sys gives access to Python runtime and system-related information.

json
Used to work with JSON data.
Definition: JSON tools convert between Python objects and JSON data, which is important for APIs.

json.dumps()
Converts a Python object into a JSON string.
Definition: dumps() performs Python object → JSON string conversion.

json.loads()
Converts a JSON string into a Python object.
Definition: loads() performs JSON string → Python object conversion.    Pasted markdown(2)

Creating Your Own Module
You can create a .py file containing your own reusable functions.
Definition: A custom module is a Python file created by you for reusable code.

from calculator import
Imports specific functions from your own module.
Definition: It allows direct use of selected functions without writing the module name.

__name__
Helps determine whether a Python file is being run directly or imported.
Definition: __name__ == "__main__" identifies code that should run when the file is executed directly.    Pasted markdown(2)

What is a Package?
A package is a folder containing Python modules.
Definition: A package organizes multiple related Python modules into one structure.

Real Project Structure
Large projects divide code into folders and modules based on their responsibilities.
Definition: Project structure organizes routes, models, utilities, configuration, and other components separately.

Third-Party Packages
These are external packages that don't come with Python.
Definition: Third-party packages are installed separately, commonly using pip install.

Module vs Package vs Library
Module → one Python file. Package → collection of modules. Library → reusable collection of code.
Definition: They are different levels of organizing and reusing Python code.